Clearing an specific package from NuGet cache - Mini spec (#10427)
NuGet/Home: designs/Commands/clear-package.md

> # Clearing an specific package from NuGet cache

Reviewer: It's not a cache, it's an installation directory. There's no updating, stale checks etc.

It's like program files.

Please refer to it as `global packages folder`.

* Status: **Incubating**
* Author(s): [Fernando Aguilar](https://github.com/dominofire)

> The purpose is to add a feature to `nuget locals` command to delete a package from NuGet cache folder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose is to add a feature to `nuget locals` command to delete a package from NuGet global packages folder folder
```

## Problem Background

> There's some interest on having features to delete an specific package instead of clearing the whole cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's some interest on having features to delete an specific package instead of clearing the whole global packages folder.
```

- https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5713 : Comments on deleting specific packages
- https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/4980 : Comments on cache handling polices
- https://github.com/chgill-MSFT/NuGetCleaner : A clean-up tool relying on last-acesss file metadata in NTFS file system

In PackageReference world, the global packages folders are shared across all restored projects. 

> There's no current API or command to delete an specific package.

Reviewer 2: There's no API to do it in a single call, but it's absolutely possible to chain together a few API calls to get the global packages folder from config, create a path resolver for that global packages folder, find the directory for a package, and then delete it.

Given this is the "problem background" section, it makes it sound like this is a problem (and neither the goals or non-goals sections below say whether this is in-scope of this design or not). I don't remember seeing any customers asking for an easier API in the NuGet SDK, so I suggest removing the mention of API here.

## Who are the customers

All `dotnet nuget locals` users.

## Goals

> - Add command options to `dotnet nuget locals` to delete _one_ package from a NuGet cache folder, either _one_ or multiple versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add command options to `dotnet nuget locals` to delete _one_ package from a NuGet global packages folder, either _one_ or multiple versions.
```

## Non-Goals

- Cache expiration policies are not covered

> - Deleting cached packages from an specific folder are not covered 

Reviewer: Can you elaborate on this?

- `packages.config` projects are not covered. To delete a package, delete the pacakge folder from `packages` folder
- `nuget.exe` commands are not covered

## Solution Overview

From ideas described in [this comment](https://github.com/NuGet/Home/issues/5713#issuecomment-320560636), the following command options will delete an specific package. Exmples are listed below.

> Delete a package from cache with an specific version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete a package from the global packages folder with a specific version:
```

```
dotnet nuget locals global-packages --clear --package a --version 1.3
```

> Delete all package versions from cache:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Delete all package versions from global packages folder:
```

```
dotnet nuget locals global-packages --clear --package a
```

Delete all versions of multiple packages:

```

> dotnet nuget locals http-cache --clear --package a

Reviewer: Is there an explicit ask for the http-cache scenarios?

Reviewer 3: Yes - I need that!
I find that after pushing new packages, then building requiring the new version of the package, it fails as it gets the info for that package from the cache.
It should really flush the package from the cache when pushing automatically.

dotnet nuget locals http-cache --clear --package b
dotnet nuget locals http-cache --clear --package c
dotnet nuget locals http-cache --clear --package d
```

Delete all versions of multiple packages (version 2):

```

> dotnet nuget locals global-packages -clear -packages a,b,c,d,e

Reviewer: The approach adopted by other commands is multiple arguments instead of `,` delimited values.

Take `dotnet restore --source` for example.

> dotnet nuget locals global-packages -clear -packages a,b,c,d,e

Reviewer 2: Other examples have used double dash `--clear` and `--package`, rather than single dash `-clear` and `-packages`.

The dotnet CLI uses the GNU argument syntax where only single character arguments use a single dash and any multi-character argument must use double dash. I don't know if the dotnet CLI implements it, but programs using GNU's `getopt` treat single dash `-ab` the same as two arguments `-a -b`, which is why `git clean -xdf` is the same as `git clean -x -d -f`, but different to `git clean --xdf`

> dotnet nuget locals global-packages -clear -packages a,b,c,d,e

Reviewer 2: Does this mean that `--version` is only valid with `--package` and not `--packages`? Should this be mentioned explicitly?

If it is valid, what's the expected behaviour? Is it possible to specify both multiple packages and multiple versions?

If we don't have customers asking to be able to delete multiple packages in a single command, I suggest it's better to drop this feature, and wait for customer feedback, with information to help us understand why it's difficult to delete one package at a time, like your example above. We can add features/arguments, but removing them is a breaking change, so much more difficult.

Reviewer 4: you can use the same double colon syntax for version{s} as dotnet-new template. https://www.nuget.org/packages/NUnit3.DotNetNew.Template/ `dotnet new --install NUnit3.DotNetNew.Template::1.9.0`. it is ugly, it doesn't "fit" with anything else in the entire ecosystem... but (that didn't stopped it becoming part of dotnet-new so) at least you have a precedence there. :)
